all right hello everybody Noel and I'm
here with Kaylee create tricks on the
sticks out podcast
Hey Kaylee how you doing I'm pretty good
[Music]
where are you based that at Kaylee um
between kind of currently living just
north of Montreal but I'm constantly
back and forth they're like two hours
away driving so and so and so you are
you're a blue gang manipulator at least
and in so far as I know you how did you
get into the flow arts universe of boo
gang and performance so so boo gang was
my first prop I started I think it was
in 2012
although in 2011 my date and it started
by my ex was actually a super proficient
crops butter and he had like every part
including a set of boo gang but he
couldn't spend so I was just like well
then I'll like start playing with the
one you can't use and like got so
addicted to it and was pretty
self-taught for the first three years
and yeah I was just like totally
addicted and it was the only promised
fun for maybe four and a half years you
know what about the boo gang like called
you in the beginning like what was it
about the boo gangs manipulation I got
to super inspired I think the shape I'd
like so much to do with it I wasn't
really in the props scene so I didn't I
didn't have much to compare it to you
know like I didn't see people spinning
double stabs and sure I knew like
stop spinning but I wasn't super like
surrounded by it like I am now and I
think just the shapes and the curves and
I really liked how it moves my body so
when was the first time since there's
not a lot of boo gang spinners in the
world when was the first time you bumped
into fellow boo gang spinners yeah so it
was at a festival in Canada called
astral harvest and so a friend of a
friend was teaching a workshop actually
so I've been spinning for I'm not sure
how long it was less than a year that
was yes I've been spinning and then went
to that festival oh my god you're
teaching a workshop yeah and there was
like everyone else in the workshop had
no idea what what this prop was you know
and that was just kind of there and so
it seems Lisa what I know of you it
seems that theatrical bits of
performance are things that particularly
call to you how did that get how did you
since where you've trained before or how
did you synthesize that into your boo
gang stuff yeah so that's a pretty
lengthy story actually so you know
started spinning goon gang a little
while later few years later I'm
Australian for a bit and just really
still and then so in Australia they had
a like full-time short term circus train
so it was like five days a week for two
months
Katrine so I signed up for that and one
of those options was active development
so like one of the classes I or my
specialties I guess I chose was AK
development because I was like that's a
great thing to be able to do and so
there I worked with I guess like you can
call them director like an act director
with the Boom Bang props so he really
helped me kind of conceptualize like
beyond the normal like this is me and my
tricks sort of performance that you see
pretty often so I he really like helped
me push into the meaning and the
creativity and the personal connection
like what you know what emotions do I
have attached to this performance and
and that was like amazing you know that
was such invaluable training and I feel
like I've taken that and they yeah I've
been able to apply it to more than just
that so I guess the question is so I've
noticed on the internet in recent
history you've translated from Lu gang
performance to more sort of sideshow I
don't know the right word performance
how did that happen how did you go from
sort of artistic blue gangs I mean I'm
sure they relate but how did you go from
an artistic food gang spinner to this
sort of artist I don't know like eating
swords and stuff yeah yeah so that was a
pretty unique transition I guess with a
lot of prop spinning it's very closely
related to fire spinning so I know got
fully immersed in fire spinning
was crazy for it for a couple years
there's fire eating which is kind of a
logical progression but then fire eating
is kind of that art that straddles I
guess fire spinning and sideshow so it
can go into those so from fire eating I
started being started by people who
practice various other sideshow things
like those skills and then I was very
lucky I met a Master Sword song where we
were doing a show together years ago and
he thought I'd make a great sword
swallower so he kind of just offered to
teach me which at the time I didn't
realize how special that was like it's
actually like finding a master very saw
that yeah it's become a huge part of
scary I mean was it scary isn't quite
the right word but it was strange and it
still is very strange uncomfortable
still is uncomfortable
though much less than before this whole
like world but I also I felt like I
guess I kind of felt prepared to learn
because years and fire-eating
really taught me to
on the menu movements of my body which
sword-swallowing how about you know your
connection to your body movements how
many swords can you i yeah I've seen a
guy do like that's that like something
you work up to or how does that work
yeah it's something you can work up to
is you know like any flow art there's a
bunch of different avenues with sword
swallowing you know there's endurance
there's numbers just like aerial straps
yeah I've actually I focused mostly on
like prop spinning or juggling and so is
there a lot of like is your full-time
profession performing performing yeah
what was I mean I think what was
challenging about that or what were some
lessons you learned along like getting
started and being like a independent
woman with their own performance
business which to be honest I feel like
I see that more often than the
independent male business maybe like as
a performer and I just see a lot of
women really like driven in the
performance world but I'm just curious
like yeah what are some like lessons
that you learned early on that you carry
with you I think as huge lesson who was
to like always take pictures always take
videos even if you know at the beginning
it was some charity show or whatever
like always treats your performances
like they're the most and like that
performance is the most important one
and make sure you document it because
that becomes so important yeah and just
I guess yeah approaching every rainy
show or you know whatever it is you're
doing like it's the most important
people see that that you caring no this
is a lot of professional did you go to
school or did you call it so in a lot of
ways I've noticed that you're a juggler
boo gang now sideshow kind of in these
three worlds at this point what was your
what was your experience and I know you
were at the European juggling convention
what are some of your milestone juggling
experiences through your journey getting
asked to perform at the name Sloane show
at E JC in allomere in 2016 that was
huge for me not only that not only it
like forced me to really put together an
amazing that you know was theatrical how
I how I like it but also like high skill
level which also this like combination
of having audience members and we're
actually like know what they're watching
that's such a treat so that was like a
huge milestone for me and another big
one let's see actually something that
changed my life was getting in
repeating contrast here in Canada so
gave me like six like two months of work
every year that I knew was going to
happen every year and so once I got that
contract I was able to I guess take more
risks I was able to step into full time
performing because I knew okay I'm gonna
give this a go sirs you know six months
was my first when I decide that I know I
have this contract coming up so whatever
happens okay so that was a huge
milestone to was getting that where was
it at like what kind of venue was that
yeah it's adding a haunted here in
Canada so they basically have like
pumpkin patches they have like it's six
haunted houses they have hay rides it's
kind of like a mini Halloween Festival
and so I I do fire shows and still is
there a community where you're located
like it exists I'd say it's pretty small
but there's like a few little circus
training spaces it exists right thing I
would say how do you stay motivated I
mean is I guess the question does
community motivate you or I do not need
that at this point or like how do you
stay motivated if you may be done see
you know like-minded people like
yourself like I mean you're quarantined
right now we just robbed
I mean I just curious like how do you
stay motivated yeah that's a good
question because I definitely definitely
am motivated by people and I love taking
skills from other props and mimicking it
on
staffs and that's how I've actually
developed a lot of um currently you know
probably many in the past year and a
half I haven't been motivated when it
comes to a staff but recently I just
need any Instagram profile dedicated to
inspiring what's it called it's called a
stock inspiration what the mission of
this Instagram yeah so I want to
highlight creative classic spinning here
isolations and they're amazing they're
beautiful and there's so much more than
props than that so I just kind of yeah
that's it there thank you guys so I just
want to highlight you know new things so
I repost basically that has a staff that
is doing something you haven't seen
before
so whether that's you know prop combos
or
spinning with multiple ice tabs were a
cool transition all kinds of things and
basically it was selfishly motivated
because
I wasn't feeling inspired so I wanted
[Music]
this transitions we're kind of jumping
around but now let's ask about s tab
because that's a big question because
I've only recently passed two years
maybe three since I've been with Lauren
but I also found that to be sort of true
where it seems like there is like I know
it's kind of a weird thing it seems like
there's this weird level of entry for
people to like not spin SF s and s tabs
and then when you're on that level there
seems to be like a huge flat area of
everybody kind of doing the same s tab
technique there's not a lot of people
like pushing into the other areas when
like just to give some examples there's
the there's contact there's the balance
stuff to sort of the quad magnet stuff
there's also stuff it's kind of
interesting how I I don't know like
where do you think FS can go because
that's kind of where I'm curious because
I I don't see a ton of stuff that's
really inspiring necessarily either
there's no wrong direction not that
there's every wrong direction I think
there's just you know there's like no
trails to follow so it's kind of a bit
of a free-for-all which can be
frustrating as yeah there's so much yeah
yeah just like a weird discussion on
technique it's interesting because I'll
just use something that's unrelated and
then go to related like in doubles
contact there's this concept of folding
right and it's really specific and
really stylized I don't know how to
describe it but it requires like a very
hardcore set of steps and like the
motion of it is very counterintuitive to
like everything you've ever done with
this two stabs ever before but somebody
figured that out right yeah I was
thinking about in boo gang whatever that
boo gangs minute Arthur cow check him
out he does some really weird stuff that
is like completely like you would never
it where anyone's not it like sits on
his hand and it like but it actually
like works now fine like that's a common
emulation I'm really interested in where
there's like a way to use the prop like
there's simple transfer like you say
like you can bounce a prop okay then you
bounce stuff but like things like
doubles folding or what Arthur's doing
it's something that's completely
different that's like you're you're
you're developing an entire new
vocabulary of technique that like nobody
was gonna find which I find that to be
really inspiring that kind of
manipulation yeah and I love seeing that
to complete creative leads you know
something something I'm like wow I would
have never thought to do that and I love
seeing people do it and because then I
can learn from it I can get inspired I
can you know light bulbs start popping
when I when I see something like yeah a
bunch of other amazing creative okay
let's get some random
I am glad we got last 10 minutes here
we'll hit 30 and then keep you on too
long and Plus this thing when I died
when I was with sage I had like an hour
long with sage in it like it's like so
frustrating so like but I'm question for
you is we're just gonna get kind of like
done a different angle here so you're a
woman and you're an Asian indeed I don't
know do you ever like because I'm half
asian too but I'm 40 Rican as well do
you ever like have you ever felt like
any levels of discriminated against by
being either of those like within the
flow unit flow juggle sideshow universe
like I'm just curious if you've ever
into any of that I mean I definitely
felt discriminated but I have felt like
it changes maybe comes down to like
being the only woman in a show you know
cast of ten people and it's one or two
and I'm like okay I wouldn't really call
that a direct discrimination but I do
think some form of discrimination not
often directly and I think that the
discussion I guess the margins and
mainstream sort of conversation kind of
helps in that way where there's like
when you're in the mainstream group
right like you it's it's not as easy to
recognize the marginal eye
group in that situation so if you're in
a show with a bunch of guys they're not
gonna notice that you're the only two
girls but if you're two girls you're
like crap I'm the only girl in this show
so that's like and I think that I think
that that happens in like all of our
lives not just you know for everybody
and I think think that that's like a
discussion that I wonder like if flow
arts could have that conversation just a
little bit more right like and not just
about like ethnicity or gender but also
around like ability I think that's a
really good conversation to have that
about like some people in our community
lose like most people including myself
events they are going to lose like motor
abilities like being able to do what I
do right now and it's already started
right it's gonna continue to occur and I
think that just like recognizing that
versus like if we're all competing for
this really hard trick and there's this
person the side that wishes they could
but like right now that's not a
possibility due to a disability at least
like recognizing that that's a thing
yes I just been thinking about that
conversation quite a bit recently how
how would someone recognize it like what
more representation more discussion like
you don't want I mean I don't know I'm
not you but people might not want if
you're the only girls women in the show
it's like not good to be like you're
let's say it like that level looks like
maybe you I don't want that so I'm not
really sure I think like sensitive
compassion towards those people which i
think has to just start with like
awareness okay this is what it is right
so you know if you're the only two women
in the show I'm not gonna be the guy to
go up and tell you or try to remind you
some or whatever I don't know
whatever that that is I think that
that's the first step I think and all of
this stuff you just feel to me that
identity work is kind of at the core of
that
I think like some people let's say you
ended yourself and you can't spin you
might not be acting confident in feeling
like you can you might have all sorts of
other like I was a Florida snow not all
those other stuff going on inside that's
like not necessarily like you might not
be ready for that conversation right
there just kind of an interesting thing
to consider and I think that identity
work is something that flow arts like
kind of lacks right now you know a lot
of ways because the more you know who
you are the ways that you're like in
sort of the mainstream group or whatever
and ways in which you're in the sort of
group that's helpful right like this is
helpful to seeing other people in those
positions my two cents there I guess
agree so I guess the last question here
Oh make sure we're good ok so the last
question I have for you is what kind of
message do you have for other like the
flow world or world that like if you
were to like motivate and inspire people
because unfortunately your gonna inspire
maybe for people that actually watch
this but in addition maybe in a year
it'll but like if you have you could do
that like what kind of message would you
leave should-should ask me this
beforehand and I could have prepared I
guess what pops in your mind initially
is like pull inspiration from as many
places as possible regardless of what
you're trying to achieve like it's great
- yeah just to have a big wide source of
inspiration whether that's you know
nature or your friends or a different
type of art or even just a different
like a lot of inspiration
and yeah and I think I think that is
yeah one way to keep it fresh one way to
be creative
one way to yeah just to like create your
own sort of unique type of expression
well Kaley thank you for joining us on
this sticks out podcast and you know
stay in touch tell people about this
small project going on yeah stay online
and we'll talk for a second afterwards
but again thanks bunch yeah thank you so
much